Add further documentation for Logstash volumes (#7022)
elastic/cloud-on-k8s: docs/orchestrating-elastic-stack-applications/logstash.asciidoc

metadata:
  name: logstash
spec:
  # some configuration attributes omitted for brevity here
  volumeClaimTemplates:
    - metadata:
        name: pq <1>
      spec:
        accessModes:
        - ReadWriteOnce
        resources:
          requests:
            storage: 10Gi
  podTemplate:
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: logstash
        volumeMounts:
        - mountPath: /usr/share/logstash/pq <2>
          name: pq  <1>
          readOnly: false
  config:
    log.level: info
    queue.type: persisted
    path.queue: /usr/share/logstash/pq <2>
----

> <1> The `name` values in the `volumeMount` for the container in the podTemplate section and the name of the `volumeClaimTemplate` must match

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> The `name` values in the `volumeMount` for the container in the `podTemplate` section and the name of the `volumeClaimTemplate` must match.
```

    - pipeline.id: beats
      dead_letter_queue.enable: true
      path.dead_letter_queue: /usr/share/logstash/dlq <2>
      config.string: |
        input {
          beats {
            port => 5044
          }
        }
        output {
          elasticsearch {
            hosts => [ "${ECK_ES_HOSTS}" ]
            user => "${ECK_ES_USER}"
            password => "${ECK_ES_PASSWORD}"
            ssl_certificate_authorities => "${ECK_ES_SSL_CERTIFICATE_AUTHORITY}"
          }
        }
    - pipeline.id: dlq_read
      dead_letter_queue.enable: false
      config.string: |
        input {
          dead_letter_queue {
            path => "/usr/share/logstash/dlq" <2>
            commit_offsets => true
            pipeline_id => "beats"
            clean_consumed => true
          }
        }
        filter {
          mutate {
            remove_field => "[geoip][location]"
          }
        }
        output {
          elasticsearch {
            hosts => [ "${ECK_ES_HOSTS}" ]
            user => "${ECK_ES_USER}"
            password => "${ECK_ES_PASSWORD}"
            ssl_certificate_authorities => "${ECK_ES_SSL_CERTIFICATE_AUTHORITY}"
          }
        }
----

> <1> The `name` values in the `volumeMount` for the container in the podTemplate section and the name of the `volumeClaimTemplate` must match

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> The `name` values in the `volumeMount` for the container in the `podTemplate` section and the name of the `volumeClaimTemplate` must match.
```

<2> Set the `path.dead_letter_queue` setting in the pipeline config to match the `mountPath` in the `volumeMount` for pipelines that are writing to the Dead Letter Queue, and set the `path` setting of the `dead_letter_queue` plugin for the pipeline that will read from the Dead Letter Queue.

[float]
== Updating the volume claim settings

> Changes are currently forbidden in `spec.volumeClaimTemplates`, such as changing the storage class or volume size. To make these changes, you have to fully delete the Logstash object, delete and recreate or resize the volume and create a new Logstash object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Changes are currently forbidden in `spec.volumeClaimTemplates`, such as changing the storage class or volume size. To make these changes, you have to fully delete the Logstash object, delete and recreate or resize the volume and create a new Logstash resource.
```

> Before deleting or resizing a persistent queue volume, ensure that the queue is empty. When using the persistent queue, we recommend setting `queue.drain: true` on the Logstash Pods to ensure that the persistent queue is drained when Pods are shutdown. In conjunction with this, note that you should also increase the `terminationGracePeriodSeconds` to a large enough value to drain your queue.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before deleting or resizing a persistent queue (PQ) volume, ensure that the queue is empty. 
When using the PQ, we recommend setting `queue.drain: true` on the {ls} Pods to ensure that the queue is drained when Pods are shutdown. 
Note that you should also increase the `terminationGracePeriodSeconds` to a large enough value to allow the queue to drain.
```

Reviewer 2: Seems like reintroducing the PQ abbreviation is a good idea.  If a user searched for PQ, this topic wouldn't be picked up.

> The following example shows how to configure a Logstash resource to drain the queue and increase the termination grace period:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This example shows how to configure a {ls} resource to drain the queue and increase the termination grace period.
```

[source,yaml,subs="attributes,+macros,callouts"]
----
apiVersion: logstash.k8s.elastic.co/v1alpha1
kind: Logstash
metadata:
  name: logstash
spec:
  # some configuration attributes omitted for brevity here
  config:
    queue.drain: true
  podTemplate:
    spec:

>       terminationGracePeriodSeconds: 604800

Reviewer: 168h? Isn't it a lot?

>       terminationGracePeriodSeconds: 604800

Reviewer: 168h seems a lot? and we say below that it can be an issue.
```suggestion
      terminationGracePeriodSeconds: 600
```

Author: This comes from the [Logstash docs](https://github.com/elastic/logstash/blob/3d257083c60bf80852e68304b10746ca34b279bb/docsk8s/troubleshooting/ls-k8s-troubleshooting-methods.asciidoc#draining-the-pq), where we state that we should set an artificially high `terminationGracePeriodSeconds` to drain the queue. The intention was to set the high value that we would prefer, but caution that it may not be honored

----

> NOTE: When used in conjunction with an autoscaler, such as the Horizontal Pod Autoscaler, Kubernetes may not honor  `terminationGracePeriodSeconds` settings greater than 600. This may mean that a queue of a terminated pod may not be fully drained, even when `queue.drain: true` is set and a high `terminationGracePeriodSeconds` is configured.

Author: Hmm, you might be right - I saw [this comment](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/94435#issuecomment-686830871), which seemed to indicate that the problem was occurring with HPA, but it may not be right. I'll amend the comment to remove that reference

> NOTE: A https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/94435[known issue] in Kubernetes, means that Kubernetes may not honor  `terminationGracePeriodSeconds` settings greater than 600. This may mean that a queue of a terminated Pod may not be fully drained, even when `queue.drain: true` is set and a high `terminationGracePeriodSeconds` is configured.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: A https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/94435[known issue] in Kubernetes, means that Kubernetes may not honor `terminationGracePeriodSeconds` settings greater than 600. This may mean that a queue of a terminated Pod may not be fully drained, even when `queue.drain: true` is set and a high `terminationGracePeriodSeconds` is configured.
```

> NOTE: A https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/94435[known issue] in Kubernetes, means that Kubernetes may not honor `terminationGracePeriodSeconds` settings greater than 600. This may mean that a queue of a terminated Pod may not be fully drained, even when `queue.drain: true` is set and a high `terminationGracePeriodSeconds` is configured.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
NOTE: A https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/94435[known issue] in Kubernetes, means that Kubernetes may not honor `terminationGracePeriodSeconds` settings greater than 600. This may mean that a queue of a terminated Pod may not be fully drained, even when `queue.drain: true` is set and a high `terminationGracePeriodSeconds` is configured.
```
```suggestion
NOTE: A https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/94435[{k8s} known issue]: {k8s} may not honor `terminationGracePeriodSeconds` settings greater than 600. 
A queue of a terminated Pod may not be fully drained, even when `queue.drain: true` is set and a high `terminationGracePeriodSeconds` is configured.
```

Reviewer 2: Using the `{k8s}` attribute adds consistency and helps avoid capitalization and spelling errors.

> NOTE: In the technical preview, there is currently no way to drain a dead letter queue automatically before Logstash shuts down. To manually drain a Dead Letter Queue, first stop sending data to it, by either disabling the DLQ feature, or disabling any pipelines that send to a DLQ, and wait for events to stop flowing through any pipelines reading from the input.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
NOTE: In this technical preview, there is currently no way to drain a dead letter queue (DLQ) automatically before {ls} shuts down. 
To manually drain the queue, first stop sending data to it, by either disabling the DLQ feature, or disabling any pipelines that send to a DLQ. 
Then wait for events to stop flowing through any pipelines reading from the input.
```

> [float]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[id="{p}-emptydir"]
	[discrete]
```

Reviewer 2: ... or a topic ID of your chosing.

== EmptyDir

> If you are not concerned about data loss, you can use an `emptyDir` volume for Logstash data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If data persistence is not a requirement for your deployment, you can use an `emptyDir` volume for {ls} data.
```

Reviewer 2: "Not concerned about data loss" sounds strong.  How does this work to soften it?

> CAUTION: The use of `emptyDir` in a production environment may generate permanent data loss. Do not use with persistent queues, or dead letter queues, or when using any plugin that requires persistent storage to keep track of state between restarts of Logstash.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
CAUTION: The use of `emptyDir` in a production environment may cause permanent data loss. 
Do not use with persistent queues (PQs), dead letter queues (DLQs), or with any plugin that requires persistent storage to keep track of state between restarts of {ls].
```

Reviewer 2: wrt "any plugin that requires persistent storage". Are there resources we can point to for this info? Would a user know which plugins require persistent storage?

Deploys Logstash and Elasticsearch, and creates an updated version of the `eck_logstash_user_role` to write to a user specified index.

[id="{p}-logstash-configuration-pq-dlq"]

> === Creating persitent volumes for PQ and DLQ

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
=== Creating persistent volumes for PQ and DLQ
```

[source,sh,subs="attributes"]
----
kubectl apply -f {logstash_recipes}/logstash-volumes.yaml
----

> Deploys Logstash, Beats and Elasticsearch. Logstash is configured with two pipelines - a main pipeline for reading from the Beats instance, which will send to the DLQ if it is unable to write to Elasticsearch, and a second pipeline, that will read from the DLQ. In addition, persistent queues are set up. This example shows how to configure persistent volumes outside of the default `logstash-data` persistent volume.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Deploys {ls], [beats] and {es]. {ls] is configured with two pipelines: 

* a main pipeline for reading from the {beats} instance, which will send to the DLQ if it is unable to write to Elasticsearch
* a second pipeline, that will read from the DLQ. 

In addition, persistent queues are set up. 
This example shows how to configure persistent volumes outside of the default `logstash-data` persistent volume.
```

Note that this release is a technical preview. It is still under active development and has additional limitations:

[id="{p}-logstash-technical-preview-persistence"]
=== Experimental support for persistence

> NOTE: This is a breaking change from version 2.8.0 of the ECK operator and requires re-creation of existing Logstash objects.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

NOTE: Persistence (experimental) is a breaking change from version 2.8.0 of the ECK operator and requires re-creation of existing {ls} objects.
```

> NOTE: This is a breaking change from  version 2.8.0 of the ECK operator and requires re-creation of existing Logstash objects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: This is a breaking change from version 2.8.0 of the ECK operator and requires re-creation of existing Logstash objects.
```

> The operator now includes support for persistence, with a small (`1Gi`) default `PersistentVolume` called `logstash-data` created, that maps to `/usr/share/logstash/data`, which should be typically used for storage from plugins. The default volume can be overridden by adding a `spec.volumeClaimTemplate` section named `logstash-data` to add more storage, or to use a different `storageClass` from the default, for example. Additional `persistentVolumeClaims` can also be defined in `spec.volumeClaimTemplate` for use with PQ, or DLQ, for example.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The operator now includes support for persistence.
It creates a small (`1Gi`) default `PersistentVolume` called `logstash-data` that maps to `/usr/share/logstash/data`, typically used for storage from plugins. 
The default volume can be overridden by adding a `spec.volumeClaimTemplate` section named `logstash-data` to add more storage, or to use a different `storageClass` from the default, for example. 
You can define additional `persistentVolumeClaims`  in `spec.volumeClaimTemplate` for use with PQ, or DLQ, for example.
```

> The current implementation does not allow resizing of volumes even if your chosen storage class would support it. To resize a volume you have to fully delete the Logstash object, delete and recreate or resize the volume and create a new Logstash object. Also note that volume claims will not be deleted when you delete the Logstash object and have to be deleted manually. This behaviour might change in future versions of the ECK operator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The current implementation does not allow resizing of volumes even if your chosen storage class would support it. To resize a volume you have to fully delete the Logstash object, delete and recreate or resize the volume and create a new Logstash object. Also note that volume claims will not be deleted when you delete the Logstash resource and have to be deleted manually. This behaviour might change in future versions of the ECK operator.
```

> The current implementation does not allow resizing of volumes even if your chosen storage class would support it. To resize a volume you have to fully delete the Logstash object, delete and recreate or resize the volume and create a new Logstash object. Also note that volume claims will not be deleted when you delete the Logstash resource and have to be deleted manually. This behaviour might change in future versions of the ECK operator.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The current implementation does not allow resizing of volumes, even if your chosen storage class would support it. 
To resize a volume, delete the {ls] object, delete and recreate (or resize) the volume, and create a new {ls} object. 
Note that volume claims will not be deleted when you delete the {ls} resource, and must be deleted manually. 
This behavior might change in future versions of the ECK operator.
```
